%Version 2.1 April 2023
% See section 11 of the User Manual for version history
%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%%                                                                 %%
%% Please do not use \input{...} to include other tex files.       %%
%% Submit your LaTeX manuscript as one .tex document.              %%
%%                                                                 %%
%% All additional figures and files should be attached             %%
%% separately and not embedded in the \TeX\ document itself.       %%
%%                                                                 %%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

\documentclass[sn-basic,pdflatex]{sn-jnl}

%%%% Standard Packages
%%<additional latex packages if required can be included here>

\usepackage{graphicx}%
\usepackage{multirow}%
\usepackage{amsmath,amssymb,amsfonts}%
\usepackage{amsthm}%
\usepackage{mathrsfs}%
\usepackage[title]{appendix}%
\usepackage{xcolor}%
\usepackage{textcomp}%
\usepackage{manyfoot}%
\usepackage{booktabs}%
\usepackage{algorithm}%
\usepackage{algorithmicx}%
\usepackage{algpseudocode}%
\usepackage{listings}%
%%%%

%%%%%=============================================================================%%%%
%%%%  Remarks: This template is provided to aid authors with the preparation
%%%%  of original research articles intended for submission to journals published
%%%%  by Springer Nature. The guidance has been prepared in partnership with
%%%%  production teams to conform to Springer Nature technical requirements.
%%%%  Editorial and presentation requirements differ among journal portfolios and
%%%%  research disciplines. You may find sections in this template are irrelevant
%%%%  to your work and are empowered to omit any such section if allowed by the
%%%%  journal you intend to submit to. The submission guidelines and policies
%%%%  of the journal take precedence. A detailed User Manual is available in the
%%%%  template package for technical guidance.
%%%%%=============================================================================%%%%

%% Per the spinger doc, new theorem styles can be included using built in style, 
%% but it seems the don't work so commented below
%\theoremstyle{thmstyleone}%
\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}%  meant for continuous numbers
%%\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}[section]% meant for sectionwise numbers
%% optional argument [theorem] produces theorem numbering sequence instead of independent numbers for Proposition
\newtheorem{proposition}[theorem]{Proposition}%
%%\newtheorem{proposition}{Proposition}% to get separate numbers for theorem and proposition etc.

%% \theoremstyle{thmstyletwo}%
\theoremstyle{remark}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}%
\newtheorem{remark}{Remark}%

%% \theoremstyle{thmstylethree}%
\theoremstyle{definition}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}%



\raggedbottom




% tightlist command for lists without linebreak
\providecommand{\tightlist}{%
  \setlength{\itemsep}{0pt}\setlength{\parskip}{0pt}}





\begin{document}


\title[Lab Notebook]{Ordinal Pattern Analysis for Early Bearing Fault
Detection and Classification in Rotating Machinery}

%%=============================================================%%
%% Prefix	-> \pfx{Dr}
%% GivenName	-> \fnm{Joergen W.}
%% Particle	-> \spfx{van der} -> surname prefix
%% FamilyName	-> \sur{Ploeg}
%% Suffix	-> \sfx{IV}
%% NatureName	-> \tanm{Poet Laureate} -> Title after name
%% Degrees	-> \dgr{MSc, PhD}
%% \author*[1,2]{\pfx{Dr} \fnm{Joergen W.} \spfx{van der} \sur{Ploeg} \sfx{IV} \tanm{Poet Laureate}
%%                 \dgr{MSc, PhD}}\email{iauthor@gmail.com}
%%=============================================================%%

\author*[1]{\fnm{Rasika} \sur{Dilhani} \dgr{MSc}}\email{\href{mailto:rasika.dilhani@vuw.ac.nz}{\nolinkurl{rasika.dilhani@vuw.ac.nz}}}

\author[1,2]{\fnm{Keila} \sur{Author} }

\author[1]{\fnm{Alejandro} \sur{Author} }



  \affil*[1]{\orgdiv{School of Mathematics and
Statistics}, \orgname{Victoria University of
Wellington}, \orgaddress{\city{Wellington}, \country{New
Zealand}, \postcode{6012}, \state{}, \street{}}}
  \affil*[2]{\orgname{Other Organisation}}

\abstract{\textbf{Purpose}: The abstract serves both as a general
introduction to the topic and as a brief, non-technical summary of the
main results and their implications. The abstract must not include
subheadings (unless expressly permitted in the journal's Instructions to
Authors), equations or citations. As a guide the abstract should not
exceed 200 words. Most journals do not set a hard limit however authors
are advised to check the author instructions for the journal they are
submitting to.

\textbf{Methods:} The abstract serves both as a general introduction to
the topic and as a brief, non-technical summary of the main results and
their implications. The abstract must not include subheadings (unless
expressly permitted in the journal's Instructions to Authors), equations
or citations. As a guide the abstract should not exceed 200 words. Most
journals do not set a hard limit however authors are advised to check
the author instructions for the journal they are submitting to.

\textbf{Results:} The abstract serves both as a general introduction to
the topic and as a brief, non-technical summary of the main results and
their implications. The abstract must not include subheadings (unless
expressly permitted in the journal's Instructions to Authors), equations
or citations. As a guide the abstract should not exceed 200 words. Most
journals do not set a hard limit however authors are advised to check
the author instructions for the journal they are submitting to.

\textbf{Conclusion:} The abstract serves both as a general introduction
to the topic and as a brief, non-technical summary of the main results
and their implications. The abstract must not include subheadings
(unless expressly permitted in the journal's Instructions to Authors),
equations or citations. As a guide the abstract should not exceed 200
words. Most journals do not set a hard limit however authors are advised
to check the author instructions for the journal they are submitting
to.\}}

\keywords{key, dictionary, word}


\pacs[JEL Classification]{D8, H51}
\pacs[MSC Classification]{35A01, 65L10}

\maketitle

\section{Introduction}\label{sec1}

Bearings are critical components in rotating machinery, yet their
demanding operating conditions involving high loads and impacts often
lead to various faults. These faults can result in significant downtime,
costly maintenance, and even complete machine failure. Therefore, early
and accurate detection and classification of bearing faults are
essential for ensuring operational reliability and minimizing
maintenance expenses.

Traditional fault detection methods primarily rely on analyzing physical
parameters and trends using techniques such as vibration analysis,
thermal monitoring, and current signature analysis. While these methods
have proven effective, they can be susceptible to noise and often
require substantial computational resources. Ordinal pattern analysis
has emerged as a promising alternative, offering a robust and
computationally efficient approach for analyzing time series data.

At its core, ordinal pattern analysis involves transforming continuous
time series data into a sequence of ordinal patterns that represent the
order relationships among data points within a given time window. This
approach effectively captures the fundamental dynamics of the signal in
a manner that is inherently robust to noise and distortions. By
analyzing these patterns, it becomes possible to identify subtle changes
in system behavior that may indicate the presence of a fault.

This study investigates the application of ordinal pattern analysis for
early detection and classification of bearing faults, focusing on common
fault types such as ball, outer race, and inner race defects. Using a
publicly available dataset from the Case Western Reserve University
Bearing Data Center, we will demonstrate the effectiveness of ordinal
patterns in distinguishing between healthy and faulty bearing
conditions.

Our research will explore the advantages of ordinal pattern analysis in
detecting changes in system dynamics associated with faults. By
identifying alterations in the frequency and recurrence of specific
temporal patterns, this technique can reveal subtle indicators of
developing faults. Furthermore, unlike some traditional methods limited
to linear systems, ordinal pattern analysis can effectively detect
faults in complex, non-linear systems, broadening its applicability.

This study will also compare the performance of ordinal pattern analysis
with traditional fault detection techniques, evaluating metrics such as
accuracy, sensitivity, and computational efficiency. While traditional
methods often rely on specialized sensors and data acquisition systems,
ordinal pattern analysis can potentially achieve comparable results
using simpler time series data, highlighting its potential for wider
adoption. Additionally, we will investigate the sensitivity of ordinal
pattern analysis to subtle changes in system dynamics, particularly
within complex systems, where its strengths may be most pronounced.

We aim to establish ordinal pattern analysis as a viable and
advantageous tool for bearing fault diagnosis, contributing to the
advancement of predictive maintenance technologies and promoting more
efficient and reliable operation of rotating machinery.

\section{Ordinal Patterns}\label{sec2}

The convergence behavior of the asymptotic variance for some types of
dynamics and the permutation entropy to the limit distribution results
lead to tests for comparing the underlying dynamics of two time
series\citep{REY2024115481}. We apply these tests results to
discriminate uniform white noise of bearing fault detection.

\section{Literature Review}\label{sec3}

\citet{WOS:000312724900101} introduce an enhanced approach to detect
bearing faults through the utilization of high-frequency resonance,
resulting in enhanced precision and dependability in diagnosing faults
within mechanical systems. The investigation illustrates that this
refined methodology adeptly recognizes initial bearing abnormalities,
representing a noteworthy progression compared to conventional
diagnostic techniques. The article by \citep{WOS:000301688000008}
presents a fresh technique for fault identification which employs an
adaptive rank-order morphological filter to categorize patterns in
one-dimensional signals. This strategy amplifies the precision and
resilience of fault diagnosis by proficiently sifting through and
pinpointing signal irregularities. Furthermore, the scholars in the
publication from \citep{WOS:000303039300034} propose an approach for
early fault detection in machinery by scrutinizing truncated vibration
signals using Shannon wavelet spectrum analysis. This method heightens
the detection of emerging faults, thereby enhancing the prognostic
maintenance of equipment.

\citet{WOS:000345844100102} discuss a prototype FPGA implementation that
uses machine learning to convert analog signals into concise feature
representations. It employs an event-based methodology to enhance the
efficiency and accuracy of signal processing across various
applications. The \citep{WOS:000396580800080} study discusses the
utilization of a dedicated hierarchy of neural networks for evaluating
bearing degradation, thereby enhancing the precision and dependability
of diagnosing the state and remaining operational life of bearings in
machinery. By amalgamating multifractal detrended fluctuation analysis
with the Mahalanobis distance criterion \citep{WOS:000320835800016}, the
research in the publication enhances the fault diagnosis of rolling
bearings, leading to improved diagnostic accuracy and offering
efficient, validated approaches for early fault detection in industrial
settings.

An additional intriguing research study detailed in the publication
\citep{WOS:000360994300029} introduces a diagnostic technique for
rolling element bearings grounded in the concept of active perception.
This method revolves around examining the dynamic interactions between
the bearing and its surroundings. Noteworthy discoveries include the
capability of the approach to precisely evaluate the bearing's condition
by integrating perceptual cues and responses, thereby enhancing fault
detection and predictive maintenance strategies. The study described in
\citep{WOS:000343577703075} presents a fault diagnosis approach for
rolling element bearings that makes use of Empirical Mode Decomposition
(EMD) in conjunction with Discrete Fourier Domain Analysis (DFDA). This
technique proficiently isolates and scrutinizes fault-related
characteristics in vibration signals, resulting in enhanced accuracy and
dependability in the diagnosis of bearing conditions. The utilization of
a signal-based triangular structuring element for mathematical
morphological analysis, along with the application of this method to
boost fault diagnosis in rolling element bearings through the effective
processing and interpretation of vibration signal features, was
deliberated in the publication \citep{WOS:000334316700001}. Furthermore,
a hybrid CEEMD-EMD strategy for fault detection in rolling bearings,
which merges Complete Ensemble Empirical Mode Decomposition with Noise
(CEEMD) and traditional Empirical Mode Decomposition (EMD) to enhance
the precision of vibration signal analysis and augment fault detection
capabilities, has been enhanced in the manuscript
\citep{WOS:000412752200052}.

The authors of the paper \citep{WOS:000335959500009} propose a
methodology for bearing fault detection that utilizes compressive
measurements of vibration signals to efficiently detect faults, thereby
enhancing diagnostic accuracy while reducing the data processing load. A
unique technique for feature extraction, based on the crossover
characteristics of nonlinear data, is applied to enhance fault diagnosis
in rotary machinery by effectively identifying critical patterns in
complex signal data as explored in \citep{WOS:000338603900013}. Research
studies indicate that Self-Organizing Maps (SOMs) are successful in
diagnosing motor bearing faults through the classification of complex
vibration data, while approaches based on fast nonlocal means and
envelope spectra contribute to improving fault diagnosis accuracy.
Moreover, a low-dimensional compressed measurement strategy boosts fault
detection efficiency, and a Bayesian inference technique guided by a
smoothness index enables precise identification of various bearing
faults by analyzing anti-symmetric real Laplace wavelet parameters
\citep[@WOS:000348309400067, @WOS:000354607100016, @WOS:000350998800016]{WOS:000380543400119}.
Recent scholarly investigations have concentrated on advanced
methodologies for bearing fault diagnosis using vibration signals.
Statistical locally linear embedding has been suggested as a potent
technique for dimensionality reduction and feature extraction,
surpassing conventional methods like PCA and LDA
\citep{WOS:000361788200068}. The combination of wavelet packet
decomposition with multi-scale permutation entropy exhibits potential in
accurately detecting bearing faults utilizing hidden Markov models
\citep{WOS:000362513400031}. Results demonstrate that this approach
significantly improves fault detection accuracy compared to traditional
methods, achieving higher precision in identifying fault types and their
severity. Integrating wavelet packet decomposition with multi-scale
permutation entropy enhances the reliability of fault diagnosis systems,
making it a valuable technique for predictive maintenance in industrial
applications.

The authors of \citep{WOS:000365686400021} introduce a new feature
extraction technique called Window Marginal Spectrum Clustering (WMSC)
for diagnosing faults in roller element bearings (REBs). This method
utilizes the Hilbert-Huang Transform (HHT) and Support Vector Machines
(SVM) to improve classification accuracy and robustness against Gaussian
white noise. Experimental results with datasets from the Bearing Data
Center of Case Western Reserve University (CWRU) demonstrate that WMSC
outperforms conventional methods. Additionally,
\citep{WOS:000366534900022} presents ``The Diagnostic Line,'' a novel
criterion for monitoring the condition of rotating machinery. This
approach aims to enhance the accuracy and reliability of machinery
health diagnosis. A comparative analysis, using data from Case Western
Reserve University, was conducted to evaluate various diagnostic
techniques and establish a standard reference for bearing fault
diagnosis \citep{WOS:000357230900007}.

The current study is built upon this investigation, incorporating the
same dataset for further examination employing a novel time series
model. Wavelet analysis, renowned for its multiresolution capabilities
and superior time-frequency domain attributes, is augmented by the
wavelet total variation (WATV) technique, which merges wavelet-domain
sparsity with total variation regularization; this manuscript presents
an enhanced wavelet total variation (IWATV) denoising approach utilizing
local variance analysis on wavelet coefficients to estimate noise
variance, illustrating enhanced noise reduction and fault diagnosis
effectiveness compared to conventional methodologies through numerical
simulations and real-world failure data. Furthermore, an innovative
two-step strategy leveraging permutation entropy for fault detection,
along with wavelet packet transform, envelope analysis, and neuro-fuzzy
classification for fault isolation, has been devised, demonstrating
improved diagnostic proficiency in contrast to existing techniques
\citep{WOS:000385104500001},\citep{RAJABI:2022117754}. These
progressions contribute to more precise and effective bearing fault
diagnosis in industrial rotating machinery. An adapted kernel marginal
Fisher analysis (MKMFA) technique for feature extraction and
dimensionality reduction to enhance bearing fault diagnosis accuracy is
elaborated in a study; by extracting critical low-dimensional features
and employing a K-nearest neighbor classifier, it exhibits superior
performance in comparison to alternative approaches when utilized for
identifying diverse bearing faults \citep{WOS:000392016300001}.

Signal analysis of vibrations is a significantly efficient approach for
diagnosing mechanical faults. However, the identification of defects in
their early stages poses a challenge due to the presence of noise from
components \citep[@WOS:000367992900001]{WOS:000369301600001}. This study
introduces a fresh methodology that merges time domain analysis with
adaptive fuzzy C-means clustering. It utilizes nine standard time domain
parameters to construct characteristic vectors and enhances clustering
by optimizing with five specific parameters (such as variance, RMS,
kurtosis, skewness, and crest factor). The research showcases the
capability of sensitive fault identification, even for minor faults.
Additionally, it devises an innovative fault diagnosis technique for
rolling bearings by integrating Multifractal Detrended Fluctuation
Analysis (MFDFA) and Alpha Stable Distribution (ASD) features. This
method incorporates Kernel Principal Component Analysis (KPCA) for
reducing dimensionality and fusing features. Moreover, it applies the
Least Squares Support Vector Machine (LSSVM) with Particle Swarm
Optimization (PSO) for classification, revealing higher accuracy and
efficacy based on bench test data when compared to approaches using
single features.

The paper by \citep{WOS:000366765500038} introduces an innovative
technique for assessing machinery damage, utilizing manifold learning
principles to compute subspace distances. This method enhances the
accuracy and responsiveness of damage evaluation by applying advanced
dimensionality reduction techniques. The research by
\citep{WOS:000379556300014} presents the utilization of Multivariate
Empirical Mode Decomposition (MEMD) in diagnosing rolling bearings'
faults. It demonstrates the effectiveness of this method in improving
fault detection by thoroughly analyzing complex, multidimensional signal
data. The manuscript proposes a methodology for diagnosing faults in
rolling element bearings by integrating Multifractal Theory and Gray
Relation Theory. This integration is designed to improve the precision
and reliability of fault detection and analysis, ultimately enhancing
diagnostic results\citep{WOS:000391229300006}. The study introduces a
new approach for examining vibration signals in rolling bearings, which
combines dual-entropy, Holder coefficient, and Gray Relation Theory.
This integration aims to improve the efficiency of fault detection and
analysis by leveraging these methods to achieve higher levels of
precision and reliability in diagnostics\citep{WOS:000426819400027}.

The paper of \citep{WOS:000398818700108} discusses the Shock Pulse Index
(SPI) and its application in diagnosing faults in rolling element
bearings, highlighting SPI's effectiveness in detecting and analyzing
bearing condition and performance issues; the results demonstrate that
SPI provides accurate fault detection and is a valuable tool for
monitoring and diagnosing bearing health. The paper explores fault
diagnosis for rolling bearings under variable conditions using visual
cognition techniques, focusing on how visual analysis can enhance fault
detection and diagnosis accuracy; results indicate that visual cognition
methods significantly improve the ability to identify and assess bearing
faults in changing operational environments\citep{WOS:000404415000016}.
The paper \citep{WOS:000401109400020} introduces sparse discriminant
manifold projections for bearing fault diagnosis, leveraging advanced
dimensionality reduction techniques to enhance fault detection and
classification accuracy; results show that this method effectively
identifies bearing faults by capturing essential discriminative features
while reducing noise and irrelevant data. The paper
\citep{WOS:000419006900041} presents a fault detection method for
rolling bearings' vibration signals using the Symplectic Entropy method,
which analyzes the complexity and patterns of vibration data to improve
fault identification accuracy; results demonstrate that this approach
effectively detects faults by providing a robust measure of signal
irregularities and anomalies.

A method for extracting incipient fault features in rolling bearings
using an autocorrelation function impulse harmonic-to-noise ratio index,
combined with Singular Value Decomposition (SVD) and the Teager Energy
Operator; results show that this approach effectively identifies
early-stage faults by enhancing the detection of subtle signal anomalies
amidst noise \citep{WOS:000416794600016}. The authors of
\citep{WOS:000484465800028} presents a bearing fault diagnosis method
that combines autoencoders with Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) and
Support Vector Machines (SVM); this approach leverages autoencoders for
feature extraction and dimensionality reduction, while PSO optimizes the
SVM parameters, resulting in improved diagnostic accuracy and robustness
in identifying bearing faults. The paper introduces an optimized
resolution coefficient algorithm for the Gray Relation Classifier,
aiming to enhance classification accuracy by improving the algorithm's
ability to distinguish between different classes through refined
resolution coefficients, leading to more precise fault diagnosis and
analysis \citep{WOS:000477760600037}. The authors of
\citep{WOS:000477760600061} proposes a signal subtle feature extraction
algorithm using an improved fractal box-counting dimension method, which
enhances the detection of fine-grained features in signals by refining
the fractal dimension calculation, resulting in better identification
and analysis of subtle signal patterns.

A novel rolling bearing fault detection method based on Empirical
Wavelet Transform (EWT), which effectively decomposes vibration signals
into components that highlight fault-related features, improving
detection accuracy and robustness in identifying bearing faults
\citep{WOS:000467079500501}. A bearing fault detection method in the
article \citep{WOS:000459864800144} that combines Empirical Mode
Decomposition (EMD) with Random Forest, which effectively analyzes
vibration signals under varying operational conditions by decomposing
them into intrinsic mode functions and classifying fault patterns,
resulting in enhanced detection accuracy and reliability. The paper
\citep{WOS:000458657500187} critically examines the significance of
feature extraction and selection in diagnosing bearing defects,
emphasizing that effective feature extraction and selection are crucial
for improving diagnostic accuracy and reliability by identifying the
most relevant characteristics from vibration signals.

The study investigates an online health status estimation technique for
rolling bearings based on vibration signals, with a focus on real-time
monitoring and analysis for evaluating bearing condition. It is shown in
the research that this method effectively assesses health status through
continuous evaluation of vibration data to identify and predict
potential faults \citep{WOS:000452922000015}. An automatic
classification approach for bearing faults is presented in the paper,
utilizing deep learning methods that employ neural networks to examine
and categorize fault patterns present in vibration signals
\citep{WOS:000453413600001}. This leads to enhanced accuracy and
efficiency in the detection and diagnosis of bearing faults. The
research paper \citep{WOS:000452819600235} introduces a method for early
fault diagnosis in bearings using Empirical Wavelet Transform (EWT) in
conjunction with energy entropy. By analyzing vibration signals with
detailed frequency decomposition and measuring the distribution of
signal energy, this method improves the identification accuracy of early
faults. Another study \citep[@WOS:000449334500118]{WOS:000450745100001}
introduces a technique for detecting faults in rolling element bearings
that involves segmenting vibration signals and applying wavelet analysis
and deep neural networks. This method improves fault detection by
segmenting the signal into meaningful parts for better accuracy,
utilizing wavelet transforms for extracting features, and employing deep
neural networks for clustering and categorizing, resulting in more
precise identification of bearing faults.

The present study \citep{WOS:000440977000032} introduces a technique for
extracting bearing fault features using autoregressive coefficients,
Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA), and Support Vector Machines (SVM) in
varying operational conditions. These methods are combined to improve
fault detection by accurately identifying and categorizing fault
features even amidst changing operational settings. A unique diagnostic
approach for rolling element bearings is proposed, which integrates
Noise-Assisted Multivariate Empirical Mode Decomposition (MEMD) with a
Functional Neural Fuzzy Network \citep{WOS:000434717400001}. This
integration utilizes MEMD to extract features effectively and the neural
fuzzy network for precise fault classification, resulting in enhanced
diagnostic precision and reliability. Another study
\citep{WOS:000426284100001} presents a fault diagnosis method for
rolling bearings that utilizes Modified Local Fisher Discriminant
Analysis (LFDA) and Empirical Mode Decomposition (EMD) along with
sensitive feature selection . The objective is to enhance fault
detection by extracting and examining critical features from vibration
signals with improved accuracy and discrimination.
\citep{WOS:000539546400083} This article details an initial fault
diagnosis technique for rolling bearings that merges Empirical Wavelet
Transform (EWT) with Spectral Kurtosis. The focus is on detecting
initial faults through refined frequency analysis with EWT and
highlighting abnormal signal features using Spectral Kurtosis, leading
to improved early fault detection and diagnostic accuracy. Another study
\citep{HAKIM:2023101945} introduces an enhanced similarity-based
modeling approach for classifying failures in rotating machines. By
utilizing advanced similarity measures to better match failure patterns
and improve diagnostic precision, the accuracy and effectiveness of
fault classification are significantly enhanced. Results indicate that
this approach surpasses traditional classification techniques, achieving
higher accuracy and reliability in failure detection. A comprehensive
review is provided on fault diagnosis methods for rolling bearings that
employ deep learning and transfer learning. The review offers a detailed
classification, overview, and application of these techniques, while
also addressing current challenges, weaknesses, and offering suggestions
for future research. It is emphasized that deep learning and transfer
learning methods have substantially improved fault diagnosis accuracy
and robustness. However, challenges such as the necessity for more
diverse datasets and the difficulty of model generalization across
different operational conditions persist. Addressing these challenges is
crucial to further enhancing the effectiveness and applicability of
these advanced diagnostic methods.

\section{Results}\label{sec4}

Sample body text. Sample body text. Sample body text. Sample body text.
Sample body text. Sample body text. Sample body text. Sample body text.

\section{This is an example for first level head---section
head}\label{sec5}

\subsection{This is an example for second level head---subsection
head}\label{subsec2}

\subsubsection{This is an example for third level head---subsubsection
head}\label{subsubsec2}

Sample body text. Sample body text. Sample body text. Sample body text.
Sample body text. Sample body text. Sample body text.

\section{Equations}\label{sec6}

Equations in \LaTeX~can either be inline or on-a-line by itself
(``display equations''). For inline equations use the \texttt{\$...\$}
commands. E.g.: The equation \(H\psi = E \psi\) is written via the
command \texttt{\$H\ \textbackslash{}psi\ =\ E\ \textbackslash{}psi\$}.

For display equations (with auto generated equation numbers) one can use
the equation or align environments:

\begin{equation}
\|\tilde{X}(k)\|^2 \leq\frac{\sum\limits_{i=1}^{p}\left\|\tilde{Y}_i(k)\right\|^2+\sum\limits_{j=1}^{q}\left\|\tilde{Z}_j(k)\right\|^2 }{p+q}.\label{eq1}
\end{equation}

where, \begin{align}
D_\mu &=  \partial_\mu - ig \frac{\lambda^a}{2} A^a_\mu \nonumber \\
F^a_{\mu\nu} &= \partial_\mu A^a_\nu - \partial_\nu A^a_\mu + g f^{abc} A^b_\mu A^a_\nu \label{eq2}
\end{align}

Notice the use of \texttt{\textbackslash{}nonumber} in the align
environment at the end of each line, except the last, so as not to
produce equation numbers on lines where no equation numbers are
required. The \texttt{\textbackslash{}label\{\}} command should only be
used at the last line of an align environment where
\texttt{\textbackslash{}nonumber} is not used.

\begin{equation}
Y_\infty = \left( \frac{m}{\textrm{GeV}} \right)^{-3}
    \left[ 1 + \frac{3 \ln(m/\textrm{GeV})}{15}
    + \frac{\ln(c_2/5)}{15} \right]
\end{equation}

The class file also supports the use of
\texttt{\textbackslash{}mathbb\{\}},
\texttt{\textbackslash{}mathscr\{\}} and
\texttt{\textbackslash{}mathcal\{\}} commands. As such
\texttt{\textbackslash{}mathbb\{R\}},
\texttt{\textbackslash{}mathscr\{R\}} and
\texttt{\textbackslash{}mathcal\{R\}} produces \(\mathbb{R}\),
\(\mathscr{R}\) and \(\mathcal{R}\) respectively (refer
Subsubsection~\ref{subsubsec2}).

\section{Tables}\label{sec7}

Tables can be inserted via the normal \texttt{knitr::kable()} function
or other table-generating packages.

\begin{table}

\caption{\label{tab:tab1}Caption text}
\centering
\begin{tabular}[t]{r|r}
\hline
temperature & pressure\\
\hline
0 & 0.0002\\
\hline
20 & 0.0012\\
\hline
40 & 0.0060\\
\hline
60 & 0.0300\\
\hline
80 & 0.0900\\
\hline
100 & 0.2700\\
\hline
\end{tabular}
\end{table}

Tables can also be inserted via the normal table and tabular
environment. To put footnotes inside tables you should use
\texttt{\textbackslash{}footnotetext{[}{]}\{...\}} tag. The footnote
appears just below the table itself (refer
Tables\textasciitilde{}\ref{tab1} and \ref{tab2}). For the corresponding
footnotemark use \texttt{\textbackslash{}footnotemark{[}...{]}}

\begin{table}[h]
\caption{Caption text}\label{tab1}%
\begin{tabular}{@{}llll@{}}
\toprule
Column 1 & Column 2  & Column 3 & Column 4\\
\midrule
row 1    & data 1   & data 2  & data 3  \\
row 2    & data 4   & data 5\footnotemark[1]  & data 6  \\
row 3    & data 7   & data 8  & data 9\footnotemark[2]  \\
\botrule
\end{tabular}
\footnotetext{Source: This is an example of table footnote. This is an example of table footnote.}
\footnotetext[1]{Example for a first table footnote. This is an example of table footnote.}
\footnotetext[2]{Example for a second table footnote. This is an example of table footnote.}
\end{table}

\noindent The input format for the above table is as follows:

\begin{verbatim}
\begin{table}[<placement-specifier>]
\caption{<table-caption>}\label{<table-label>}%
\begin{tabular}{@{}llll@{}}
\toprule
Column 1 & Column 2 & Column 3 & Column 4\\
\midrule
row 1 & data 1 & data 2  & data 3 \\
row 2 & data 4 & data 5\footnotemark[1] & data 6 \\
row 3 & data 7 & data 8  & data 9\footnotemark[2]\\
\botrule
\end{tabular}
\footnotetext{Source: This is an example of table footnote.
This is an example of table footnote.}
\footnotetext[1]{Example for a first table footnote.
This is an example of table footnote.}
\footnotetext[2]{Example for a second table footnote.
This is an example of table footnote.}
\end{table}
\end{verbatim}

\begin{table}[h]
\caption{Example of a lengthy table which is set to full textwidth}\label{tab2}
\begin{tabular*}{\textwidth}{@{\extracolsep\fill}lcccccc}
\toprule%
& \multicolumn{3}{@{}c@{}}{Element 1\footnotemark[1]} & \multicolumn{3}{@{}c@{}}{Element 2\footnotemark[2]} \\\cmidrule{2-4}\cmidrule{5-7}%
Project & Energy & $\sigma_{calc}$ & $\sigma_{expt}$ & Energy & $\sigma_{calc}$ & $\sigma_{expt}$ \\
\midrule
Element 3  & 990 A & 1168 & $1547\pm12$ & 780 A & 1166 & $1239\pm100$\\
Element 4  & 500 A & 961  & $922\pm10$  & 900 A & 1268 & $1092\pm40$\\
\botrule
\end{tabular*}
\footnotetext{Note: This is an example of table footnote. This is an example of table footnote this is an example of table footnote this is an example of~table footnote this is an example of table footnote.}
\footnotetext[1]{Example for a first table footnote.}
\footnotetext[2]{Example for a second table footnote.}
\end{table}

\vfill\eject

In case of double column layout, tables which do not fit in single
column width should be set to full text width. For this, you need to use
\texttt{\textbackslash{}begin\{table*\}} \texttt{...}
\texttt{\textbackslash{}end\{table*\}} instead of
\texttt{\textbackslash{}begin\{table\}} \texttt{...}
\texttt{\textbackslash{}end\{table\}} environment. Lengthy tables which
do not fit in textwidth should be set as rotated table. For this, you
need to use \texttt{\textbackslash{}begin\{sidewaystable\}} \texttt{...}
\texttt{\textbackslash{}end\{sidewaystable\}} instead of
\texttt{\textbackslash{}begin\{table*\}} \texttt{...}
\texttt{\textbackslash{}end\{table*\}} environment. This environment
puts tables rotated to single column width. For tables rotated to double
column width, use \texttt{\textbackslash{}begin\{sidewaystable*\}}
\texttt{...} \texttt{\textbackslash{}end\{sidewaystable*\}}.

\begin{sidewaystable}
\caption{Tables which are too long to fit, should be written using the "sidewaystable" environment as shown here}\label{tab3}
\begin{tabular*}{\textheight}{@{\extracolsep\fill}lcccccc}
\toprule%
& \multicolumn{3}{@{}c@{}}{Element 1\footnotemark[1]}& \multicolumn{3}{@{}c@{}}{Element\footnotemark[2]} \\\cmidrule{2-4}\cmidrule{5-7}%
Projectile & Energy & $\sigma_{calc}$ & $\sigma_{expt}$ & Energy & $\sigma_{calc}$ & $\sigma_{expt}$ \\
\midrule
Element 3 & 990 A & 1168 & $1547\pm12$ & 780 A & 1166 & $1239\pm100$ \\
Element 4 & 500 A & 961  & $922\pm10$  & 900 A & 1268 & $1092\pm40$ \\
Element 5 & 990 A & 1168 & $1547\pm12$ & 780 A & 1166 & $1239\pm100$ \\
Element 6 & 500 A & 961  & $922\pm10$  & 900 A & 1268 & $1092\pm40$ \\
\botrule
\end{tabular*}
\footnotetext{Note: This is an example of table footnote this is an example of table footnote this is an example of table footnote this is an example of~table footnote this is an example of table footnote.}
\footnotetext[1]{This is an example of table footnote.}
\end{sidewaystable}

\section{Figures}\label{sec6}

As per the \LaTeX~standards you need to use eps images for
\LaTeX~compilation and \texttt{pdf/jpg/png} images for \texttt{PDFLaTeX}
compilation. Use the \texttt{dev} knitr option to use the approrpate
format. This is one of the major difference between \LaTeX~and
\texttt{PDFLaTeX}. Each image should be from a single input .eps/vector
image file. Avoid using subfigures. The command for inserting images for
\LaTeX~and \texttt{PDFLaTeX} can be generalized. The package used to
insert images in \texttt{LaTeX/PDFLaTeX} is the graphicx package.
Figures can be inserted via the normal figure environment as shown in
the below example:

\begin{figure}
\includegraphics{Laboratory-Notebook_files/figure-latex/fig1-1} \caption{This is an example of a caption}\label{fig:fig1}
\end{figure}

\section{Algorithms, Program codes and Listings}\label{sec7}

Packages \texttt{algorithm}, \texttt{algorithmicx} and
\texttt{algpseudocode} are used for setting algorithms in \LaTeX~using
the format:

\begin{verbatim}
\begin{algorithm}
\caption{<alg-caption>}\label{<alg-label>}
\begin{algorithmic}[1]
. . .
\end{algorithmic}
\end{algorithm}
\end{verbatim}

You may refer above listed package documentations for more details
before setting \texttt{algorithm} environment. For program codes, the
``program'' package is required and the command to be used is
\texttt{\textbackslash{}begin\{program\}} \texttt{...}
\texttt{\textbackslash{}end\{program\}}. A fast exponentiation
procedure:

Similarly, for \texttt{listings}, use the \texttt{listings} package.
\texttt{\textbackslash{}begin\{lstlisting\}} \texttt{...}
\texttt{\textbackslash{}end\{lstlisting\}} is used to set environments
similar to \texttt{verbatim} environment. Refer to the
\texttt{lstlisting} package documentation for more details.

A fast exponentiation procedure:

\lstset{texcl=true,basicstyle=\small\sf,commentstyle=\small\rm,mathescape=true,escapeinside={(*}{*)}}
\begin{lstlisting}
begin
  for $i:=1$ to $10$ step $1$ do
      expt($2,i$);  
      newline() od                (*\textrm{Comments will be set flush to the right margin}*)
where
proc expt($x,n$) $\equiv$
  $z:=1$;
  do if $n=0$ then exit fi;
     do if odd($n$) then exit fi;                 
        comment: (*\textrm{This is a comment statement;}*)
        $n:=n/2$; $x:=x*x$ od;
     { $n>0$ };
     $n:=n-1$; $z:=z*x$ od;
  print($z$). 
end
\end{lstlisting}

\begin{algorithm}
\caption{Calculate $y = x^n$}\label{algo1}
\begin{algorithmic}[1]
\Require $n \geq 0 \vee x \neq 0$
\Ensure $y = x^n$ 
\State $y \Leftarrow 1$
\If{$n < 0$}\label{algln2}
        \State $X \Leftarrow 1 / x$
        \State $N \Leftarrow -n$
\Else
        \State $X \Leftarrow x$
        \State $N \Leftarrow n$
\EndIf
\While{$N \neq 0$}
        \If{$N$ is even}
            \State $X \Leftarrow X \times X$
            \State $N \Leftarrow N / 2$
        \Else[$N$ is odd]
            \State $y \Leftarrow y \times X$
            \State $N \Leftarrow N - 1$
        \EndIf
\EndWhile
\end{algorithmic}
\end{algorithm}

\begin{minipage}{\hsize}

\lstset{frame=single,framexleftmargin=-1pt,framexrightmargin=-17pt,framesep=12pt,linewidth=0.98\textwidth,language=pascal}

\begin{lstlisting}
for i:=maxint to 0 do begin \{ do nothing \} end; Write(`Case
insensitive'); Write(`Pascal keywords.');

\end{lstlisting}

\end{minipage}

\section{Cross referencing}\label{sec8}

Figures and tables are labeled with a prefix (fig or tab, respectively)
plus the chunk label. Other environments such as equation and align can
be labelled via the \texttt{\textbackslash{}label\{\#label\}} command
inside or just below the \texttt{\textbackslash{}caption\{\}} command.
You can then use the label for cross-reference. As an example, consider
the chunk label declared for Figure~\ref{fig:fig1} which is fig1. To
cross-reference it, use the command
\texttt{Figure\ \textbackslash{}ref\{fig:fig1\}}, for which it comes up
as ``Figure~\ref{fig:fig1}''.

To reference line numbers in an algorithm, consider the label declared
for the line number 2 of Algorithm~\ref{algo1} is
\texttt{\textbackslash{}label\{algln2\}}. To cross-reference it, use the
command \texttt{\textbackslash{}ref\{algln2\}} for which it comes up as
line~\ref{algln2} of Algorithm~\ref{algo1}.

\subsection{Details on reference citations}\label{subsec7}

For citations of references, use~\citet{bib1} or \citep{bib2}.

\section{Examples for theorem like environments}\label{sec10}

The documentclass for springer \texttt{sn-jnl.cls} contains 3 styling
that you can use to set new default for theorems and proofs type

\begin{description}
\item[\texttt{thmstyleone}]
Numbered, theorem head in bold font and theorem text in italic style
\item[\texttt{thmstyletwo}]
Numbered, theorem head in roman font and theorem text in italic style
\item[\texttt{thmstylethree}]
Numbered, theorem head in bold font and theorem text in roman style
\end{description}

For mathematics journals, theorem styles can be included as shown in the
following examples.

\begin{theorem}
Example theorem text. Example theorem text. Example theorem text.
Example theorem text. Example theorem text. Example theorem text.
Example theorem text. Example theorem text. Example theorem text.
Example theorem text. Example theorem text.

\end{theorem}

To add labels and subheadings, use LaTeX notation

\begin{theorem}[Theorem subhead]\label{thm1}
Example theorem text. Example theorem text. Example theorem text.
Example theorem text. Example theorem text. Example theorem text.
Example theorem text. Example theorem text. Example theorem text.
Example theorem text. Example theorem text.

\end{theorem}

Other environments are proposition, example, remark, definition, proof
and quote

Sample body text. Sample body text. Sample body text. Sample body text.
Sample body text. Sample body text. Sample body text. Sample body text.

\begin{proposition}
Example proposition text. Example proposition text. Example proposition
text. Example proposition text. Example proposition text. Example
proposition text. Example proposition text. Example proposition text.
Example proposition text. Example proposition text.

\end{proposition}

Sample body text. Sample body text. Sample body text. Sample body text.
Sample body text. Sample body text. Sample body text. Sample body text.

\begin{example}
Phasellus adipiscing semper elit. Proin fermentum massa ac quam. Sed
diam turpis, molestie vitae, placerat a, molestie nec, leo. Maecenas
lacinia. Nam ipsum ligula, eleifend at, accumsan nec, suscipit a, ipsum.
Morbi blandit ligula feugiat magna. Nunc eleifend consequat lorem.

\end{example}

Sample body text. Sample body text. Sample body text. Sample body text.
Sample body text. Sample body text. Sample body text. Sample body text.

\begin{remark}
Phasellus adipiscing semper elit. Proin fermentum massa ac quam. Sed
diam turpis, molestie vitae, placerat a, molestie nec, leo. Maecenas
lacinia. Nam ipsum ligula, eleifend at, accumsan nec, suscipit a, ipsum.
Morbi blandit ligula feugiat magna. Nunc eleifend consequat lorem.

\end{remark}

Sample body text. Sample body text. Sample body text. Sample body text.
Sample body text. Sample body text. Sample body text. Sample body text.

\begin{definition}[Definition sub head]
Example definition text. Example definition text. Example definition
text. Example definition text. Example definition text. Example
definition text. Example definition text. Example definition text.

\end{definition}

Additionally a predefined ``proof'' environment is available. This
prints a ``Proof'' head in italic font style and the ``body text'' in
roman font style with an open square at the end of each proof
environment.

\begin{proof}
Example for proof text. Example for proof text. Example for proof text.
Example for proof text. Example for proof text. Example for proof text.
Example for proof text. Example for proof text. Example for proof text.
Example for proof text.

\end{proof}

Sample body text. Sample body text. Sample body text. Sample body text.
Sample body text. Sample body text. Sample body text. Sample body text.

\section{Methods}\label{sec11}

Topical subheadings are allowed. Authors must ensure that their Methods
section includes adequate experimental and characterization data
necessary for others in the field to reproduce their work. Authors are
encouraged to include RIIDs where appropriate.

\textbf{Ethical approval declarations} (only required where applicable)
Any article reporting experiment/s carried out on
(i)\textasciitilde live vertebrate (or higher invertebrates),
(ii)\textasciitilde humans or (iii)\textasciitilde human samples must
include an unambiguous statement within the methods section that meets
the following requirements:

\begin{enumerate}
\def\labelenumi{\arabic{enumi}.}
\item
  Approval: a statement which confirms that all experimental protocols
  were approved by a named institutional and/or licensing committee.
  Please identify the approving body in the methods section
\item
  Accordance: a statement explicitly saying that the methods were
  carried out in accordance with the relevant guidelines and regulations
\item
  Informed consent (for experiments involving humans or human tissue
  samples): include a statement confirming that informed consent was
  obtained from all participants and/or their legal guardian/s
\end{enumerate}

If your manuscript includes potentially identifying patient/participant
information, or if it describes human transplantation research, or if it
reports results of a clinical trial then additional information will be
required. Please visit
(\url{https://www.nature.com/nature-research/editorial-policies}) for
Nature Portfolio journals,
(\url{https://www.springer.com/gp/authors-editors/journal-author/journal-author-helpdesk/publishing-ethics/14214})
for Springer Nature journals, or
(\url{https://www.biomedcentral.com/getpublished/editorial-policies/\#ethics+and+consent})
for BMC.

\section{Discussion}\label{sec12}

Discussions should be brief and focused. In some disciplines use of
Discussion or `Conclusion' is interchangeable. It is not mandatory to
use both. Some journals prefer a section `Results and Discussion'
followed by a section `Conclusion'. Please refer to Journal-level
guidance for any specific requirements.

\section{Conclusion}\label{sec13}

Conclusions may be used to restate your hypothesis or research question,
restate your major findings, explain the relevance and the added value
of your work, highlight any limitations of your study, describe future
directions for research and recommendations.

In some disciplines use of Discussion or `Conclusion' is
interchangeable. It is not mandatory to use both. Please refer to
Journal-level guidance for any specific requirements.

\backmatter

\bmhead{Supplementary information}

If your article has accompanying supplementary file/s please state so
here.

Authors reporting data from electrophoretic gels and blots should supply
the full unprocessed scans for key as part of their Supplementary
information. This may be requested by the editorial team/s if it is
missing.

Please refer to Journal-level guidance for any specific requirements.

\bmhead{Acknowledgments}

Acknowledgments are not compulsory. Where included they should be brief.
Grant or contribution numbers may be acknowledged.

Please refer to Journal-level guidance for any specific requirements.

\section*{Declarations}\label{declarations}
\addcontentsline{toc}{section}{Declarations}

Some journals require declarations to be submitted in a standardised
format. Please check the Instructions for Authors of the journal to
which you are submitting to see if you need to complete this section. If
yes, your manuscript must contain the following sections under the
heading `Declarations':

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  Funding
\item
  Conflict of interest/Competing interests (check journal-specific
  guidelines for which heading to use)
\item
  Ethics approval
\item
  Consent to participate
\item
  Consent for publication
\item
  Availability of data and materials
\item
  Code availability
\item
  Authors' contributions
\end{itemize}

\noindent If any of the sections are not relevant to your manuscript,
please include the heading and write `Not applicable' for that section.

\begin{flushleft}
Editorial Policies for:

\noindent Springer journals and proceedings:
\url{https://www.springer.com/gp/editorial-policies}

\noindent Nature Portfolio journals:
\url{https://www.nature.com/nature-research/editorial-policies}

\noindent \textit{Scientific Reports}:
\url{https://www.nature.com/srep/journal-policies/editorial-policies}

\noindent BMC journals:
\url{https://www.biomedcentral.com/getpublished/editorial-policies}

\end{flushleft}

\begin{appendices}

\section{Section title of first appendix}\label{secA1}

An appendix contains supplementary information that is not an essential
part of the text itself but which may be helpful in providing a more
comprehensive understanding of the research problem or it is information
that is too cumbersome to be included in the body of the paper.

For submissions to Nature Portfolio Journals please use the heading
``Extended Data''.

\end{appendices}

\bibliography{BearingFaultDiagnosis.bib}


\end{document}
